Stub release 2.33 blog (#5365)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2026/07/flowfuse-release-2-33.md

date: 2026-07-30
authors: ["jamie-strusz"]
image: /blog/2026/07/images/[TBD].png
tags:
  - flowfuse
  - news
  - releases
---

FlowFuse 2.33 is about trust. The FlowFuse Expert can now take real action on your instances, and this release adds the controls that make that safe: you approve what the AI does, every action leaves an audit trail, and access tokens carry only the permissions you grant them.

<!--more-->

## You Decide What the Expert Can Do

The FlowFuse Expert now asks before it acts. When the Expert wants to use a tool on your behalf, you choose: allow it once, deny it, or always allow it. Permissions follow your team role, so an operator and a team owner see different options.

Letting an AI assistant modify flows on a production system is a different proposition from letting it answer questions. Until now, the choice was binary: enable the Expert or don't. Human-in-the-loop permissions give you the middle ground. The Expert stays fast for the actions you trust it with and pauses for the ones you want eyes on.

[SCREENSHOT: allow / deny / always allow prompt]

*Availability: [CONFIRM tier] users of FlowFuse Cloud and [CONFIRM licence] Self Hosted users from v2.33.*

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FlowFuse 2.33 is about trust. The FlowFuse Expert can now take real action on your instances, and this release adds the controls that make that safe: every action leaves an audit trail, and access tokens carry only the permissions you grant them.

```

Reviewer: HITL is already in the FlowFuse 2.32 release blog post

![An embedded dashboard with the switcher drawer open to move between dashboards](./images/dashboard-drawer.png){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

*Availability: all users of FlowFuse Cloud and all Self Hosted users from v2.33.*

## Modbus Certified Node

FlowFuse Hub customers can now install a FlowFuse-certified Modbus node straight from the palette manager in their editor. It covers Modbus TCP and Serial — including RTU and ASCII — in a single package.

Modbus is one of the most common protocols on the factory floor, but the community package most teams rely on depends on volunteer maintainers. We forked node-red-contrib-modbus and now maintain our own version, backed by FlowFuse testing, SLA-backed security patching, and a long-term maintenance commitment. A node sitting at the center of your production flows no longer carries supply-chain risk.

> *This feature is available exclusively to FlowFuse Hub customers, on both FlowFuse Cloud and Self Hosted, from v2.33.*

Reviewer 2: Hey @sumitshinde-84 @Steve-Mcl @allthedoll I took a stab at writing the Modbus entry, please review and lmk!

*Availability: all users of FlowFuse Cloud and all Self Hosted users from v2.33.*

## Tighter Control Over Who and What Reaches Your Systems

The more of your platform that automated clients and AI agents can reach, the more the question shifts: not just what they are allowed to do, but what you can prove they did afterwards, and how narrowly you can scope their access up front. 2.33 adds three controls that answer it.

### Every MCP Action, on the Record

FlowFuse now keeps an audit trail of MCP activity. When an AI client reads data or invokes a tool through FlowFuse, the action is logged: what happened, when, and under whose authority.

If you answer to an OT security team or an auditor, "the AI did it" is not an acceptable line in an incident report. The audit trail turns AI activity into the same kind of accountable, reviewable record you already expect from human operators.

![An audit log listing MCP tool invocations with actor and timestamp](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=MCP+Audit+Trail){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

> *Availability: [CONFIRM tier] from v2.33.*

Reviewer 3: `[CONFIRM tier]` would publish literally here.

I could not find a source that settles this one. There is no changelog entry for the MCP audit trail; the only 2.33 changelog entries in the repo are `scoped-pats.md`, `application-sso-groups.md` and `team-and-application-dashboards.md`. There is also no `featureCatalog.yaml` entry for MCP auditing.

The nearest reference is the existing `audit-log` entry in `src/_data/featureCatalog.yaml`, which is `cloud.enterprise: true` and `selfHosted.enterprise: true`. Whether the MCP audit trail sits under that same Enterprise gate or is broader is the open question.

### Scoped Personal Access Tokens

Personal Access Tokens now carry scopes. Create a token that can do exactly what its integration needs and nothing more.

Previously a PAT carried the full permissions of the user who created it. If you generated a token for a read-only dashboard integration, that token could still modify your instances. Scoped tokens close that gap and follow the least-privilege pattern your security team already applies everywhere else.

> **Getting started:** [CONFIRM: Team Settings path and scope options]

Reviewer 3: `[CONFIRM: Team Settings path and scope options]` would publish literally here.

The scope options half is answerable from `src/changelog/2026/07/scoped-pats.md`:

> You can restrict a token to specific teams, limit it to read-only operations, or control whether it carries admin privileges.

The settings path is the part still missing, since the changelog does not name where in the UI you create a scoped token.

Separately, that changelog file is worth a look on its own: it is titled "FlowFuse Expert Enhancements" with a description about Insights, Plan Mode and Human in the Loop sitting above a body that is entirely about scoped PATs. That reads like a copy-paste leftover from the 2.32 Expert entry.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can easily navigate towards your [personal settings](https://app.flowfuse.com/account/security/tokens) to setup a new personal access token and configure it with the right scope and permissions.
```

![The token creation dialog with individual permission scopes selected](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=Scoped+Access+Tokens){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

> *Availability: [CONFIRM tier] from v2.33.*

Reviewer 3: `[CONFIRM tier]` would publish literally here.

No source I checked settles it. `src/changelog/2026/07/scoped-pats.md` describes the capability but states no tier, and there is no `featureCatalog.yaml` entry for Personal Access Tokens or token scoping, so there are no badges to derive it from either.

### Manage Granular RBAC Through Your Identity Provider

> SSO admins can now map SAML groups to FlowFuse's granular roles. When someone joins the "Plant Floor Operators" group in your identity provider, they get the matching FlowFuse permissions automatically. No manual role assignment, no drift between your IdP and your platform.

Reviewer 3: Consideration: this reads as though SAML group to role mapping is itself new, but the changelog entry for this work (`src/changelog/2026/07/application-sso-groups.md`, "Application Roles from SSO Groups") scopes it more narrowly:

> Application level Role overrides can now be managed by SSO Group membership. As well as Team wide Role membership additional groups can be used to apply Role overrides to specific Applications.

So team-wide role mapping already existed, and what 2.33 adds is per-application overrides driven by additional groups. Worth deciding whether to narrow the claim, since as written it may over-promise to someone who already has team-wide SSO roles working.

The "Plant Floor Operators" example still works if attached to a single application, for instance a broad read-only role across the team with edit rights on just the application that group owns.

Reviewer 3: let's make sure to check this

![SAML group names mapped to FlowFuse roles in the SSO configuration](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=SAML+Group+Mapping){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

> *Availability: Enterprise [CONFIRM] from v2.33.*

Reviewer 3: `[CONFIRM]` would publish literally here, as "Availability: Enterprise [CONFIRM] from v2.33."

This one the catalog does answer. The `sso` entry in `src/_data/featureCatalog.yaml` is:

```yaml
- id: sso
  label: Single Sign-On (SSO)
  cloud:
    enterprise:
      value: true
  selfHosted:
    enterprise:
      value: true
```

Enterprise only, on both Cloud and Self-Hosted, with no other tier set. So "Enterprise" is consistent with the catalog and the marker can most likely just be deleted.

## Also in This Release

> - The Expert is better at telling when you want it to act versus when you want guidance. [CONFIRM #411 landed]

Reviewer 3: `[CONFIRM #411 landed]` would publish literally here.

The reference has no repository qualifier, so on this public repo it will also render as a link to issue 411 in FlowFuse/website, which is not what is meant. Worth either qualifying it as `owner/repo#411` or dropping the bullet if the work did not land.

For what it is worth, the closest 2.33 milestone items to "better at telling when you want it to act versus when you want guidance" are the two HITL tool permission issues, and both are cleanup of the 2.32 work (promoting JsonViewer to a generic component, and tidying review comments) rather than a behavior change.

- MCP server enumeration is much faster for teams with many instances.
- Fixed dropdown inputs rejecting values that matched the start of a suggestion.
- Plus dependency updates and smaller fixes.

For detailed breakdowns of each feature with additional visuals, visit our [changelog](/changelog/). For the complete list of everything included in FlowFuse 2.33, check out the [release notes](https://github.com/FlowFuse/flowfuse/releases).

If something in this release improves your workflow, or if there is still friction we can remove, please [share feedback or report issues regarding this release](mailto:contact@flowfuse.com?subject=Feedback%20on%202.33) to us.

> ## Try FlowFuse

Reviewer 3: Consideration: this page will render two calls to action.

`src/_includes/layouts/post.njk` includes `cta/blog-post.njk` unconditionally, and that include does `{% set ctaType = ctaData.type or "contact" %}`. With no `cta:` frontmatter here, it falls back to the contact variant, so a styled "Discuss your use case with our team" block with a Contact Us button renders in addition to this hand-written section.

The handbook flags this directly:

> Do not add a `## Try FlowFuse` block manually in the body, as it will render twice on the published page.

Noting that the shipped 2.32 post does have a manual Try FlowFuse section as well, alongside an explicit `cta: contact` override, so there is precedent either way. Options are to drop this section and set `cta:` to the sign-up variant, or keep it and add an explicit `cta:` block so the second one is deliberate rather than a silent fallback.

Reviewer 3: Let's reconsider what makes most sense here instead of relying on "what we always do"

Previously a PAT carried the full permissions of the user who created it. If you generated a token for a read-only dashboard integration, that token could still modify your instances. Scoped tokens close that gap and follow the least-privilege pattern your security team already applies everywhere else.

**Getting started:** [CONFIRM: Team Settings path and scope options]

![The token creation dialog with individual permission scopes selected](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=Scoped+Access+Tokens){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

*Availability: Hub and Edge from v2.33.*

### Manage Granular RBAC Through Your Identity Provider

SSO admins can now map SAML groups to FlowFuse's granular roles. When someone joins the "Plant Floor Operators" group in your identity provider, they get the matching FlowFuse permissions automatically. No manual role assignment, no drift between your IdP and your platform.

![SAML group names mapped to FlowFuse roles in the SSO configuration](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=SAML+Group+Mapping){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

*Availability: Hub and Edge from v2.33.*

## Also in This Release

> - The Expert is better at telling when you want it to act versus when you want guidance. [CONFIRM #411 landed]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Expert is better at telling when you want it to act versus when you want guidance.
```

Getting your own hardware into FlowFuse meant working backwards. You signed up, found the remote instance section, learned what the Device Agent was, created the instance in the platform, copied its connection details, and only then ran the installer with that code in hand.

Now you can start where the hardware already is. Run the installer from your terminal and it walks you through registering — including setting up an account if you need one — ending with your machine registered as a remote instance and ready to build on. If something's in the way — like port 1880 already being in use — the installer tells you up front instead of failing partway through.

![The installer running in a terminal, walking through sign-up and connection to FlowFuse](./images/device-agent-install.gif){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

More of the from-scratch onboarding experience lands in upcoming releases.

## Modbus Certified Node

FlowFuse Hub customers can now install a FlowFuse-certified Modbus node straight from the palette manager in their editor. It covers Modbus TCP and Serial — including RTU and ASCII — in a single package.

> Modbus is one of the most common protocols on the factory floor, but the community package most teams rely on depends on volunteer maintainers. We forked node-red-contrib-modbus and now maintain our own version, backed by FlowFuse testing, SLA-backed security patching, and a long-term maintenance commitment. A node sitting at the center of your production flows no longer carries supply-chain risk.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Modbus is one of the most common protocols on the factory floor, but the community package most teams rely on depends on volunteer maintainers. The FlowFuse-certified node is backed by our own testing, SLA-backed security patching, and a long-term maintenance commitment.
```

Previously a PAT carried the full permissions of the user who created it. If you generated a token for a read-only dashboard integration, that token could still modify your instances. Scoped tokens close that gap and follow the least-privilege pattern your security team already applies everywhere else.

You can easily navigate towards your [personal settings](https://app.flowfuse.com/account/security/tokens) to setup a new personal access token and configure it with the right scope and permissions.

![The token creation dialog with individual permission scopes selected](./images/scoped-pats.png){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

*Availability: Hub and Edge from v2.33.*

### Manage Granular RBAC Through Your Identity Provider

SSO admins can now map SAML groups to FlowFuse's granular roles. When someone joins the "Plant Floor Operators" group in your identity provider, they get the matching FlowFuse permissions automatically. No manual role assignment, no drift between your IdP and your platform.

> ![SAML group names mapped to FlowFuse roles in the SSO configuration](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=SAML+Group+Mapping){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

![An embedded dashboard with the switcher drawer open to move between dashboards](./images/dashboard-drawer.png){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

*Availability: all users of FlowFuse Cloud and all Self Hosted users from v2.33.*

## Tighter Control Over Who and What Reaches Your Systems

The more of your platform that automated clients and AI agents can reach, the more the question shifts: not just what they are allowed to do, but what you can prove they did afterwards, and how narrowly you can scope their access up front. 2.33 adds three controls that answer it.

### Every MCP Action, on the Record

FlowFuse now keeps an audit trail of MCP activity. When an AI client reads data or invokes a tool through FlowFuse, the action is logged: what happened, when, and under whose authority.

If you answer to an OT security team or an auditor, "the AI did it" is not an acceptable line in an incident report. The audit trail turns AI activity into the same kind of accountable, reviewable record you already expect from human operators.

> ![An audit log listing MCP tool invocations with actor and timestamp](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=MCP+Audit+Trail){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "FlowFuse 2.33: From Setting Up Plant Floor Hardware to Visualizing Your Data"
subtitle: "Set up your own hardware directly, reach your equipment through a FlowFuse-certified Modbus connection, see every dashboard in one place, and keep firmer control over who and what can reach your platform."

> description: "FlowFuse 2.33 takes you from setting up plant floor hardware directly to visualizing its data, with a FlowFuse-certified Modbus connection, a home for every dashboard, and firmer control over platform access through scoped Personal Access Tokens, SSO-driven application roles, and an MCP audit trail."

Reviewer: We are missing info about the FlowFuse Tables tools in here

Reviewer 3: let's highlight with mcp access next release

![The installer running in a terminal, walking through sign-up and connection to FlowFuse](./images/device-agent-install.gif){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

More of the from-scratch onboarding experience lands in upcoming releases.

## Modbus Certified Node

FlowFuse Hub customers can now install a FlowFuse-certified Modbus node straight from the palette manager in their editor. It covers Modbus TCP and Serial — including RTU and ASCII — in a single package.

Modbus is one of the most common protocols on the factory floor, but the community package most teams rely on depends on volunteer maintainers. We forked node-red-contrib-modbus and now maintain our own version, backed by FlowFuse testing, SLA-backed security patching, and a long-term maintenance commitment. A node sitting at the center of your production flows no longer carries supply-chain risk.

> ![The FlowFuse certified Modbus node listed in the editor's palette manager](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=Certified+Modbus+Node){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

*Availability: all users of FlowFuse Cloud and all Self Hosted users from v2.33.*

## Tighter Control Over Who and What Reaches Your Systems

The more of your platform that automated clients and AI agents can reach, the more the question shifts: not just what they are allowed to do, but what you can prove they did afterwards, and how narrowly you can scope their access up front. 2.33 adds three controls that answer it.

### Every MCP Action, on the Record

FlowFuse now keeps an audit trail of MCP activity. When an AI client reads data or invokes a tool through FlowFuse, the action is logged: what happened, when, and under whose authority.

If you answer to an OT security team or an auditor, "the AI did it" is not an acceptable line in an incident report. The audit trail turns AI activity into the same kind of accountable, reviewable record you already expect from human operators.

![An audit log listing MCP tool invocations with actor and timestamp](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=MCP+Audit+Trail){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

*Availability: Hub and Edge from v2.33.*

### Scoped Personal Access Tokens

> Personal Access Tokens now carry scopes. Create a token that can do exactly what its integration needs and nothing more.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Personal Access Tokens now be scoped to specific teams and include read or write permissions. Create a token that can do exactly what its integration needs and nothing more. This is especially important for AI usecases.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Personal Access Tokens can now be scoped to specific teams and include read or write permissions. Create a token that can do exactly what its integration needs and nothing more. This is especially important for AI use cases.
```

Reviewer: You had a few typos @dimitrieh

Previously a PAT carried the full permissions of the user who created it. If you generated a token for a read-only dashboard integration, that token could still modify your instances. Scoped tokens close that gap and follow the least-privilege pattern your security team already applies everywhere else.

**Getting started:** [CONFIRM: Team Settings path and scope options]

> ![The token creation dialog with individual permission scopes selected](https://placehold.co/1600x900?text=Scoped+Access+Tokens){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![The token creation dialog with individual permission scopes selected](./images/scoped-pats.png){data-zoomable style="border: 2px solid #E5E7EB;"}
```
